Post on api integration services (#1360)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2023-04-19-api-integrations.md

  2. Your program calls the authorization server's token endpoint to exchange the Client ID and Client Secret for an access token. The access token contains the Okta API Scopes allowed. There may be [Okta SDKs](https://developer.okta.com/code/) that help support this token call for you, depending on your language and framework.
  > **Note**
  > If you have a custom authorization server, such as when using a Okta Developer Edition org, you'll have to use signed JSON Web Token (JWT) using a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS). Read more about how to do this on the [Implement OAuth for Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/) developer documentation.
  3. When you use the access token to call Okta APIs, you'll add the token to the Authorization header using the `Bearer` scheme.

```http
GET /api/v1/groups?limit=10 HTTP/1.1
Authorization: Bearer access_token
Accept: application/json
Host: dev-1234567.okta.com
```

**Considerations with using OAuth**

> The preferred method is using OAuth to call Okta APIs. It's more secure, and using widely available standards makes the calling process require less manual code. You'll configure the scopes you want the process to access, which aren't tied to a specific user. But it is a 2-step process to make the API call as first you'll need to get the access token. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this should say: "But it is a 2-step process to make the API call as first you'll need to get the access token."

Author: I changed it to 
> But you'll need to get the access token before making the API call.

 

**When to use OAuth authorization**

You should use OAuth as the preferred authorization mechanism for communication with Okta APIs, including machine-to-machine communications. A widely accepted industry standard like OAuth affords the most security and scope flexibility.

But, if you create an API Service application in Okta to share it outside of your organization, you delegate the scope configuration to the customer as part of their process of setting up an API Service application. There's a temptation for potential customers to either allow too much access or, conversely, limit access, causing frustrations that your integration needs fixes to work as intended. 

> **Use API Integration Services**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Use API Service Integrations**
```

> API Integration Services creates API integration applications using OAuth but with more powers! Your API Integration becomes more discoverable to potential customers with improved handling for scopes. You can submit your integration to the [Okta Integration Network (OIN)](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/okta-integration-network/), which makes your integration available in the OIN catalog. Potential customers can find your integration to add to their Okta org. Plus, as part of the submission process, you define the scopes your integration needs beforehand. Customers can see those scopes in the OIN catalog. Transparency in the required resources will help them feel more comfortable using your integration.

Reviewer 2: "API Service Integrations" is the label in the Admin Console.
"API service integration" is what we are calling this type of integration in the OIN Manager. This feature only exists if you decide to start the OIN Manager submission process.

Reviewer 3: "Customers can see those scopes in the OIN catalog."  <-- This isn't true today, we don't display scopes in the catalog.
https://www.okta.com/integrations/?capability=api
![Uploading Screen Shot 2023-04-19 at 12.55.38 PM.png…]()

Author: @ramyamudduluri-okta when I looked at the OIN catalog and selected an integration to install, it shows me the scopes the integration needs. I can add something about selecting for install before seeing the scope, or are you thinking the phrasing is still incorrect?

> When you want to create an API Integration Service, you'll create a test integration as part of the submission form to trial locally before you finalize the submission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you submit your API service integration in the OIN Manager, you can test your integration as part of the submission process. The OIN Manger provides you with a mechanism to create a local service app instance in your org to run your integration tests before you finalize the submission.
```

Reviewer 2: If you want, you can link to the OIN Manager:
```
[OIN Manager](https://oinmanager.okta.com/)
```

Author: I think it should be creating a test integration first before submitting. The idea that you'd first submit before testing contradicts development processes, so I'd like to keep the wording about creating an integration first. 

I'll change it to something like 
> When creating integrations listed in the OIN, you can test your integration as part of the submission process. The OIN Manager provides a mechanism to create a local service app instance in your org to test your integration before you finalize the submission.

## Decide which API authorization mechanism to use

> When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using OAuth 2.0, and API Integrations Services if you create an API Integration for the OIN. If you have limitations using OAuth 2.0 for your use case, use API Tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using OAuth 2.0, and API Service Integrations if you create an API integration for the OIN. If you have limitations using OAuth 2.0 for your use case, use API Tokens.
```

{% img blog/api-integrations/flowchart.jpg alt:"Flowchart describing first using OAuth, then using  API Services Integration in cases of OIN application. Lastly use an API Token if there are no other options." width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Learn more about connecting to Okta APIs using OAuth Client Credentials

> API tokens are the simplest, but this simplicity makes them too limited for production applications' security and reliability needs. OAuth client credentials require more understanding to set up but scale indefinitely for internal use. And for code intended for use outside your organization, API Service Integrations built on top of OAuth maximize flexibility and control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API tokens are the simplest, but this simplicity makes them too limited for production applications' security and reliability needs. OAuth client credentials require more understanding to set up but scale indefinitely for internal use. And for code intended for use by your customers to access their Okta tenant, API Service Integrations built on top of OAuth maximize flexibility and control.
```

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Selecting the Best Authorization for Your API Integrations"
author: [alisa-duncan, edunham]
by: advocate
communities: [security]
description: "API calls require authorization. How do you select the best authorization mechanism? This post lists out the different authorization options and answers which mechanism is the best!"
tags: [apis, integrations, oauth]
tweets:
- "Call your APIs securely using best authorization mechanisms. Read on to find out more!"
image: blog/api-integrations/social.jpg
type: awareness
---

Integrating with an API lets you power up your code by knowing what the API knows and doing what the API can do. The catch is that most APIs can't and shouldn't let just anybody access your important resources. Just as humans log in to access resources, programs accessing APIs must obtain proper authorization. 

Your application can use three types of authorization mechanisms when calling Okta APIs from your Okta integration, each with its pros and cons:
  1. API Tokens

>   2. OAuth

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  2. OAuth 2.0
```

>   3. API Integration Services

Reviewer 2: I would remove this point, this is not an authorization mechanism. The "API Service Integration" is a feature within the OIN Manager where you can submit OAuth 2.0 client credential flow apps that request for service-based tokens. Currently, the API Service Integration feature doesn't support user-based token access.

## OAuth Client Credentials

OAuth has a standard flow for machine-to-machine communication called Client Credentials, the preferred way for processes without user input to communicate to Okta APIs. Using OAuth mechanisms enables you to use a well-known standardized format with fantastic support in libraries, frameworks, and languages of your choice. You can create an API Services application in the Okta Admin Console or use the [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/).

If you haven't used OAuth Client Credentials before, a quick overview is as follows:
  1. You'll create the Okta API Services application and configure the Okta API Scopes you want this application to have. When you make the Okta application, you'll receive a Client ID and a Client Secret to add to your Okta configuration in your program.
  2. Your program calls the authorization server's token endpoint to exchange the Client ID and Client Secret for an access token. The access token contains the Okta API Scopes allowed. There may be [Okta SDKs](https://developer.okta.com/code/) that help support this token call for you, depending on your language and framework.
  > **Note**

>   > If you have a custom authorization server, such as when you use a developer preview org, then you'll have to send a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) using a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS). Read more about how to do this on the [Implement OAuth for Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/) developer documentation.

Reviewer 4: currently we call them "Okta Developer Edition org"

  3. When you use the access token to call Okta APIs, you'll add the token to the Authorization header using the `Bearer` scheme.

```http
GET /api/v1/groups?limit=10 HTTP/1.1
Authorization: Bearer access_token
Accept: application/json
Host: dev-1234567.okta.com
```

**Considerations with using OAuth for integrations**

The preferred method is using OAuth to call Okta APIs from private integrations or internal processes. It's more secure, and using widely available standards makes the calling process require less manual code. You'll configure the scopes you want the process to access, which aren't tied to a specific user. But it is a 2-step process to make the API call as first you'll need to get the access token.

> But, if you're planning on creating an Okta integration publicly available on the [Okta Integration Network (OIN)](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/okta-integration-network/), you'll want to a better mechanism for making your integration application more discoverable to potential customers. When you have a public integration, you delegate scope configuration to the consumer. There's a temptation to either allow too much access or, conversely, limit access, causing frustrations that your integration needs fixes to work as intended.  

Reviewer 2: "When you have a public integration, you delegate scope configuration to the consumer..."

This is not exactly true. The ISV configures the scopes required. When the customer adds the service app from the OIN catalog, they grant access to the scopes that the ISV configures for their app (usually, this is just an "Accept" button).

**When to use OAuth authorization for integrations**

You should use OAuth as the preferred authorization mechanism. Use OAuth when you are creating an internal integration process.

## API Integration Services

API Integration Services have all of the advantages of OAuth authorization, with the added ability for discoverability for public integrations! You'll use the standard OAuth Client Credentials flow, which means you can use libraries that support it for your framework/language. Plus, you'll define the scopes you need to ensure you have the ones required for running your integration and provide transparent assurance to consumers on the permissions you require and those you don't require. When they understand the access levels, consumers may feel comfortable adding integrations to their organization.

> You'll create the machine-to-machine process, test it locally, and then submit the integration to the OIN for public consumption. Okta customer administrators will see all available API Service Integrations in the Okta Admin Console. They can find the integration they want to add, review the requested scopes, and authorize it. They receive a Client ID and Client Secret that they provide to you, the integration provider, along with the Okta Domain so you can make the calls to retrieve the access token.

Reviewer 2: The API Service Integration feature in the OIN Manager is a new process that departs from the SSO model where you use the App Wizard to create an app instance to test your app. In this new model, the ISV would start the submission process in the OIN Manager, then they can click "Test in Okta", where an app instance is created for them to test (providing client credentials for testing their app). This new model provides the ISV the same UI that their customers would see, enabling them to tweak the OIN configuration to suit their needs. I think John Baldo originally envision this model for the API service integration first, then he wanted to expand it to the SSO, SCIM integrations as well (Workflow Connector is another new integrated test-flow).

**Considerations with using API Integration Services**

You'll use standard OAuth flows, so you'll have a secure authorization mechanism, but it is a 2-step process to get the access token. You'll also need to define the scopes you need beforehand, which will help customers feel more comfortable using your integration.

**When to use API Integration Services**

> Use API Integration Services when you create machine-to-machine integration for general use within the OIN. You'll have security, discoverability, and clarity for the users when you use this approach.

Reviewer 2: Probably want to add the caveat that only apps requiring service-based API access is supported (user-based API access is not supported currently).

Author: @vanngo-okta can you clarify? Do you mean that APIs expecting user context access (such as user/me) or something else? Since the post is about machine-to-machine integrations, should there be clarification that API access is limited to calls applicable for machine-to-machine context?

Reviewer 2: You can still have a service app (machine-to-machine) that has user-based API calls. Such as a workflow where a ticket was created by a support admin to add a user to a group. The automation could be achieved by a service app from the ticket lifecycle. The task of adding the user to the group is tied to that support admin for traceability.

## Decide which API authorization mechanism to use

> When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using API Integration Services first, then OAuth, and finally API Tokens as shown in the following flowchart:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using OAuth 2.0 first, and then using the API Service Integration for public service apps accessible through the OIN, if applicable. If you have limitations using OAuth 2.0 for your use case, you can use API Tokens as shown in the following flowchart:
```

Author: @vanngo-okta Since this was written as a POV of an ISV writing an integration, suggesting the following tweak on your suggestion. LMK what you think

> When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using OAuth 2.0. If you're creating a public service app accessible through the OIN, use API Service Integration. If you have limitations using OAuth 2.0 for your use case, then use API Tokens as shown in the following flowchart:

Reviewer 2: I like this update 👍 . And would probably go further about OAuth in the API Service Integration:

> When calling Okta APIs, we recommend using OAuth 2.0. If you're creating a public service app accessible through the OIN, use OAuth 2.0 with the API Service Integration. If you have limitations using OAuth 2.0 for your use case, then use API Tokens as shown in the following flowchart:

> {% img blog/api-integrations/flowchart.jpg alt:"If you are building a public integration, use API Services Integration, otherwise use OAuth. Lastly use an API Token if there are no other options." width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer 2: 2 issues with this diagram:
1. OAuth and "API Services Integration" seem like they are equals, but the API service integration uses OAuth with limitations.
2. The digram suggests that if you want to have a public integration and "API Service Integration" doesn't work, then you can move to use API Tokens. Currently, you can't have API-token service apps in the OIN catalog.

## Learn more about connecting to Okta APIs using OAuth Client Credentials

API tokens are the simplest, but this simplicity makes them too limited for production applications' security and reliability needs. OAuth client credentials require more understanding to set up but scale indefinitely for internal use. And for code intended for use outside your organization, API Service Integrations built on top of OAuth maximize flexibility and control.

If you found this post interesting, you might find these resources useful:

* [Secure Your .NET 6 Web API](/blog/2022/04/20/dotnet-6-web-api)
* [How to Use Client Credentials Flow with Spring Security](/blog/2021/05/05/client-credentials-spring-security)
* [Implement authorization by grant type](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/clientcreds/main/)

> * [Build an API service integration](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/build-api-integration/main/)

Reviewer 2: This might be another good link to add:
[API service integrations in the OIN](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/oin-api-service-overview/)
